This repo is a draft of my Major Lables Project where I anayse what major label is "the best". 
For this analysis I used : 
- Web Scraping with Beautiful Soup (scraping.ipynb)
- Data Analysis with pandas and matplotlib (analysis_majors.ipynb)
- SQL Queries with PostgreSQL (by linking python with the Postres database) (Postgres_Queries/postgresPython.ipynb)
- Ploting/Data Analysis with R (added colors to represent a 3rd column)

And here is a preview/draft of my upcomming article(s) where I will be documenting this project : 

                                              The Goal for this Project
### Initial Question 

If you are interested in the business side of music you probably ear all the time that “major labels control the industry”, 
they are everywhere, they own everything, they are the ones that benefit the most from your favourite artist hard work. 
Major labels is a generic term used to qualify the Music division of Sony, Universal and Warner, as if they were one single entity. 
But it’s not the case and we hardly ear which major label is best one and which one is the worst one. 
Indeed the three leaders of the music industry are discreet which makes it hard to rank them, 
and what makes it even harder is that each major label own a bunch a medium - big size labels which themselves sometimes own 
small labels. So for this project we will try to see through the smoke and figure out “what major label is the best one” ? 

### Questions to answer 

You maybe already noticed that our initial question is a little too broad as there is no metric, or so many metrics, 
for being the best. Total streams ? Average number of streams per track ? Number of trending artist ? 
Average number of streams per artist ? Because may be one label make more streams but most of said streams are 
generated by a single artist that became popular by chance, does it make our hypothetic label the best ? 
I don’t think so. So here a a list of specific question we will try to answer with this project : 

-What major label makes more total streams ? 
-What major label has the best streams / tracks ratio 
-What major label signed the most artists ? 
-Among the most trending artist (total streams) how many are signed in each major label ? 
-Among the most efficient artist (streams / tracks ratio ) how many are signed in each major label ? 
This questions are a good starting point to help us decide which major label is “the best” (no DJ Khaled pun indented). And we might even get lucky and find new relevant questions to answer down the road. 

### The Data

Now we have two option, either we find a dataset to answer our questions or we ask to everybody in the world 
what are they listening to. I personaly rather go with the first option, (if you chose the second one 
send the survey through though). 

But more seriously there are really two major streaming platforms Spotify and Apple Music and either one of them are big enough 
to be considered as representative. For this project I will go with Spotify because according to this Statista article : 
https://www.statista.com/chart/8399/spotify-apple-music-paid-subscribers/ Spotify has more users, 
which makes sense considering that they has a free / advertisement based offer. 

So now that we chose Spotify what data are we pulling from Spotify ? Spotify has a great API which makes it easy to pull 
A LOT of informations. Dave Dhruvil  already did the job for us (even though I will use the API myself in later articles) 
by posting on kaggle a dataset that gathers all the “Top 200” and “Viral 50” posted by Spotify since 2017 
https://www.kaggle.com/dhruvildave/spotify-charts the file is 3.5 GB (which shows that it’s doable). 
But this amount of data isn’t ideal for the begging and might be good only for a later stage of the project, 
since it going to take time to explore it entirely, and every wrangling of the dataset might take a little bit of time to 
be processed. So I’m choosing a smaller dataset to start with, which still contains a lot of information, 
and is a great way to practice, before automating the analysis for a bigger Spotify dataset, as it contains the same columns : 
the current  “Top 200”. 

### The Value

Now you might be wondering, cool project but were is the value ? Who would want to know the answers at these questions ? 
And the answer is everybody, from a business and an entertainment stand point. Let me explain, imagine this situation, 
there is a new rising artist, let’s call him Michael Jackson, who has received offers from all the three major labels and 
he don’t know who to sign with. Fortunately in this situation he finds my article and reads the short and 
very informative conclusion and makes the right decision and become a super star and impact lives of millions 
and even billions of people. In this particular situation there is a lot of value in this project for Michael Jackson. 

But more realistically, this project might be valuable for artist and small labels or even medium - big size labels 
who would be able to sign with “the best” major label for them, with clear information in this really opaque business side 
of the music industry. 

This project might also be valuable for the major labels themselves which I am certain are monitoring every move and score 
of the other two industry’s giants. 

First Step
Now that the project’s goal is clear and the dataset is selected the first step is : Getting the Data
